---


Grown men apologising for taking time off to be with their families.

http://www.independent.co.uk/news/business/news/sweden-six-hours-work-day-scrap-pilot-staff-welfare-healthier-happier-productive-economic-costs-a7510616.html
Shorter-yet-more-productive days scrapped, because it's "too expensive". I guess those poor CEOs don't want to let go of their millions. Slavery is here to stay, ladies and gentlemen.

I want to be in a relationship where both my partner and I can win. Why does one of us have to take the brunt of the childcare?

I've worked with those who don't believe in working from home, will stay late in the office, or say they'll still be on email while they're at school sports day. Those same guys either talk disparagingly about their wives, or are currently going through a divorce. The proof is in the pudding.

And to the guy who's working late: either your child goes to bed VERY late, or you just don't care about seeing them before their bedtime. 

What to do? Agree to a half-day on a half-rate? No, then I wouldn't be able to afford anything. Best to do is to sign the "you shall sit on your arse for 8 hours a day and do X" and hope no-one notices too much when you are responsible elsewhere as well.

What is the alternative? Sleep rough? 

http://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/greater-manchester-news/number-people-sleeping-rough-greater-12504539

More people seem to do so. Is it because the workplace is getting more competitive?

My money is on those greedy CEOs wanting too much.


--

Help the parents around you.
You grew up in a civilised world with professionals who helped you along the way: teachers, doctors, civil servants.

They were all once babies, and those babies had parents. Aren't you grateful to those parents for raising what would become good doctors, nurses, teachers?

Do you think those good doctors, nurses and teachers "just happened"? Or, did it take careful nurturing, quality time with mummy and daddy, and so forth? The latter, yes.

Now, look at your colleague who's also a parent, but who needs to duck out at 4h30 to pick the baby up from childminder, or who needs to duck out at 2PM to do a school run. Do you still hate your colleague for visibly not being in the office, even though they're doing a good job?

Remember that from 4h30 until 8h30PM it's a mad rush of commuting and herding cats, getting them fed and bathed, reading them a story, and checking if they're OK. Hell, if you have a bad sleeper this can go on until way beyond 8h30.

Upon which time we'll scrape together the energy to finish off that last bit of work we left undone at 4h30PM.

--

Bit of context: I live in the Ivory Tower called London. In fact, I work in London so I can afford to live in London.

We don't have family to help out.

We also don't want to leave the children with strangers all day long.

-- 

What I want is the village to help me raise my child.
Sadly the global village we live in today doesn't care about your child.

--

Colleague: "I don't have children, and the fact that you have children is affecting me."

Me: "Where do you think the qualified doctors and nurses who's going to wipe your sorry 80 year old arse is going to come from?"

--

fact: all the people you've once needed and relied upon in your life were once children. Ergo, children are quite necessary. 

It's not like we're having loads of children either. Hans Rosling, peak child.
